Remove backup resources (#8261)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/backup/08-01-velero-turorial.md

---
title: Taking backup using Velero
type: Tutorials
---

> Follow this tutorial to install Velero and take a backup from Kyma cluster.

Reviewer: We need to add a short intro with disclaimer, something like:
For scenarios of partial restore of individual applications running on Kyma, you might want to use Velero. It will create a backup of your kubernetes resources and volumes so that you can restore them on a different cluster.
Be aware that a full restore of a Kyma cluster is not supported. You need to always start from an existing Kyma installation and restore explicit resources individual.

Author: Added

## Prerequisites

> Download and install the [Velero CLI](https://github.com/heptio/velero/releases/tag/v1.3.2).

Reviewer: Maybe just link https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/releases to avoid versions?

Author: Done

---
title: Taking backup using Velero
type: Tutorials
---

> This tutorial shows how to perform a partial restore of individual applications running on Kyma using Velero. Follow the guidelines to back up your Kubernetes resources and volumes so that you can restore them on a different cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows how to use Velero to perform a partial restore of individual applications running on Kyma. Follow the guidelines to back up your Kubernetes resources and volumes so that you can restore them on a different cluster.
```

1. Install the Velero server.

    <div tabs name="override-configuration">
      <details>
      <summary label="google-cloud-platform">
      Google Cloud Platform
      </summary>

      ```bash
      velero install \
          --provider gcp \
          --bucket {BUCKET} \
          --secret-file {CREDENTIALS_FILE} \
          --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-gcp:v1.0.0 \
          --restore-only \
          --wait
      ```

      >**NOTE:** For details on configuring and installing Velero on GCP, see [this](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-gcp/blob/master/README.md) document.

      </details>
      <details>
      <summary label="azure">
      Azure
      </summary>

      ```bash
      velero install \
          --provider azure \
          --bucket {BUCKET} \
          --secret-file {CREDENTIALS_FILE} \
          --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-microsoft-azure:v1.0.0 \
          --backup-location-config resourceGroup={AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP},storageAccount={AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT} \
          --snapshot-location-config apiTimeout={API_TIMEOUT},resourceGroup={AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP} \
          --restore-only \
          --wait
      ```

>       >**NOTE:** For details on configuring and installing Velero in Azure, see [this](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-microsoft-azure/blob/master/README.md) document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      >**NOTE:** For details on configuring and installing Velero on Azure, see [this](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-microsoft-azure/blob/master/README.md) document.
```

---
title: Taking backup using Velero
type: Tutorials
---

For scenarios of partial restore of individual applications running on Kyma, you might want to use Velero. It will create a backup of your kubernetes resources and volumes so that you can restore them on a different cluster.

> > **NOTE:**  Be aware that a full restore of a Kyma cluster is not supported. You need to always start from an existing Kyma installation and restore explicit resources individual.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:**  Be aware that a full restore of a Kyma cluster is not supported. You should start with an existing Kyma installation and restore specific resources individually.
```

> Follow this tutorial to install Velero and take a backup from Kyma cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I would remove this (as I rephrased the first line). We also have it mentioned in the `steps` part:)

## Prerequisites

Download and install the [Velero CLI](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/releases).

## Steps

> Follow these steps to install Velero and take a backup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to install Velero and back up your Kyma cluster.

1. Install the Velero server.

    <div tabs name="override-configuration">
      <details>
      <summary label="google-cloud-platform">
      Google Cloud Platform
      </summary>

      ```bash
      velero install \
          --provider gcp \
          --bucket {BUCKET} \
          --secret-file {CREDENTIALS_FILE} \
          --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-gcp:v1.0.0 \
          --restore-only \
          --wait
      ```

>       >**NOTE:** For details on configuring and installing Velero on GCP, see [this](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-gcp) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      >**NOTE:** For details on configuring and installing Velero on GCP, see [this](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-gcp/blob/master/README.md) document.
```

      </details>
      <details>
      <summary label="azure">
      Azure
      </summary>

      ```bash
      velero install \
          --provider azure \
          --bucket {BUCKET} \
          --secret-file {CREDENTIALS_FILE} \
          --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-microsoft-azure:v1.0.0 \
          --backup-location-config resourceGroup={AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP},storageAccount={AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT} \
          --snapshot-location-config apiTimeout={API_TIMEOUT},resourceGroup={AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP} \
          --restore-only \
          --wait
      ```

>       >**NOTE:** For details on configuring and installing Velero in Azure, see [this](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-microsoft-azure) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      >**NOTE:** For details on configuring and installing Velero in Azure, see [this](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-microsoft-azure/blob/master/README.md) document.
```

      >**CAUTION:** If you are using AKS, set the **AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP** to the name of the auto-generated resource group created when you provision your cluster on Azure since this resource group contains your cluster's virtual machines/disks.

      </details>
    </div>

> 2. Take a backup of all the resources on the cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a backup of all the resources on the cluster:
```
